# DNS Basics

DNS is used to convert human friendly domain names into an Internet Protocol address.

## IPv4 vs IPv6

IPv4 is a 32 bits field (4 billion addresses)
IPv6 is 128 bits (a lot of addresses)

## Top Level Domains

The last word in a domain is the top level domain (.com). Top level domain names are controlled by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority ([IANA](http://www.iana.org/domains/root/db)).

## Domain Registrars

A registrar is an authority that can assign domain names under one or more top level domains. Each domain name becomes registered in a central database known as the WhosIS databse.

## SOA Records

- The name of the server that supplied the data for the zone.
- The administrator of the zone
- The current version of the data file
- The number of seconds a secondary name server should wait before checking for updates.
- The maximum number of seconds that a secondary name server can use data before it must either be - refreshed or expired.
- The default number of seconds for the **time-to-live** file on resource records

## NS Records

Name server records are used by top level domains servers to direct traffic to the content DNS server which contains the authoritative DNS records.

## A Records

A records are fundamental. Stand for the "Address"

## TTL Record

The length that a DNS record is cached. Time to live in seconds. If you plan to do a DNS migration **lower the TTL** first.

## CNAMES

Stands for canonical names
mobile.myname.com to point myname.com

## ALIAS Records (AWS)

Very similar to CNAME records.
Alias records are used to map resource record sets in your hosted zone to Load Balancers, CloudFront Distributions, or S3 buckets.

**A CNAME can't be used for naked domain names (zone apex records)**

## Tips

- ELB don't have predefined IPv4 addresses, you resolve them using their DNS Name.
- Alias Records allow you to resolve a naked domain name to individual AWS resources (e.g ELB DNS Name).
- Given the choice, always choose an Alias Record over a CNAME for AWS Resources.
